Security Engineering - Assignment 6
Exploit Notes

Project name:
Vulnerable Login System

Language:
C only


1. Regular system behavior

The program implements a simple login system.

The users are saved in:
data/users.txt

Each line in the file has this format:
username:password

Example:
admin:secret

The normal login flow is:
1. The user enters a username.
2. The user enters a password.
3. The program searches for the username in the users file.
4. If the username exists, the program compares the entered password with the saved password.
5. If the passwords are equal, the user enters the protected area.
6. If the password is wrong, the login fails.


2. Hidden dump function

The program contains a function named dump_users.

This function opens the users file and prints all usernames and passwords.

The function is not shown as a regular menu option.
This is intentional, because a normal user should not be able to call this function.

In this assignment, dump_users is used as an attack target.
The goal is to show that even if a function is not exposed in the menu,
it still exists in memory and can be reached if the attacker controls the program flow.


3. Variable overflow attack

Relevant vulnerable struct:

struct LoginData {
    char password[16];
    int authenticated;
};

The password buffer has a size of 16 bytes.
The authenticated variable is placed after the password buffer inside the same struct.

Initial value:
authenticated = 0

Vulnerable line:
strcpy(data.password, user_input);

The problem:
strcpy copies the input without checking the destination size.
If the input is longer than 16 bytes, it continues writing after the password buffer.

Payload:
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

Explanation:
The first 16 A characters fill the password buffer.
The 17th A overflows into the authenticated integer.
The ASCII value of A is 65.
Therefore, authenticated changes from 0 to 65.

Since authenticated is now non-zero, the program enters the protected area
without knowing the real password.

Observed output:
Before input: authenticated = 0
After input: authenticated = 65
Authentication passed.


4. Return address overwrite attack

Relevant vulnerable function:
return_address_vulnerable

The function contains a local stack buffer:

char buffer[64];

Vulnerable line:
strcpy(buffer, input);

The problem:
The buffer has a fixed size of 64 bytes.
The input is copied into the buffer without checking its size.
A long input can overwrite data that is stored after the buffer on the stack.

The assignment requires showing this part with a debugger.

Important functions:
authenticated_area
dump_users

The program prints their addresses when it starts.

Example from one run:
authenticated_area address: 00000001400015ae
dump_users address:        00000001400014de

The exact payload depends on:
1. The offset from the start of the buffer to the saved return address.
2. The target function address.
3. The machine architecture and how the compiler arranges the stack.

This part should be completed after checking the exact stack layout in the debugger.


5. Timing attack

The program contains an insecure password comparison function.

Vulnerable idea:
The password is compared character by character.
If a wrong character is found, the function returns immediately.
If a character is correct, the function waits for a short time using usleep.

Because of that, guesses with a longer correct prefix take more time.

Example:
Guess: s
Time: about 84039 microseconds

Guess: se
Time: about 176824 microseconds

This shows that the second guess took more time,
because it had more correct characters at the beginning.

The timing attack program uses this idea to recover the password one character at a time.

For each position:
1. Try all possible characters.
2. Measure the response time.
3. Choose the character with the longest time.
4. Add it to the recovered password prefix.
5. Continue until the password is found.


6. Debugger requirements for the video

In the video, the following should be shown:

Variable overflow:
- Breakpoint inside variable_overflow_login
- Disassemble the function
- Show the struct fields
- Show authenticated before and after the payload

Return address overwrite:
- Breakpoint inside return_address_vulnerable
- Disassemble the function
- Show the buffer address
- Show the target function addresses
- Explain how the payload is built according to the offset and target address

Timing attack:
- Show that different guesses take different times
- Show that a longer correct prefix creates a longer response time
- Run the timing_attack program and show the recovered password


7. Compilation commands

Compile the vulnerable server:

gcc src/server.c -o bin/server -g -fno-stack-protector -no-pie

Compile the timing attack program:

gcc src/timing_attack.c -o bin/timing_attack -g


8. Run commands

Run the server normally:

./bin/server

Run one manual timing check:

./bin/server timing admin s

Run another manual timing check:

./bin/server timing admin se

Run the timing attack program:

./bin/timing_attack